.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH statica-serve 1  "serve 0.12.1" 
.SH NAME
statica\-serve \- Serve out_dir over HTTP (preview a build)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBstatica serve\fR [\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR] [\fB\-\-project\fR] [\fB\-\-out\-dir\fR] [\fB\-\-site\-url\fR] [\fB\-\-clean\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-clean\fR] [\fB\-\-copy\-assets\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-copy\-assets\fR] [\fB\-\-asset\-dirs\fR] [\fB\-\-ignore\-dirs\fR] [\fB\-\-process\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-process\fR] [\fB\-\-minify\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-minify\fR] [\fB\-\-sitemap\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-sitemap\fR] [\fB\-\-rss\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-rss\fR] [\fB\-\-pagination\fR] [\fB\-\-preview\fR] [\fB\-\-host\fR] [\fB\-p\fR|\fB\-\-port\fR] [\fB\-\-i18n\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-i18n\fR] [\fB\-\-manifest\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-manifest\fR] [\fB\-V\fR|\fB\-\-verbose\fR] [\fB\-\-silent\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] [\fIPATH\fR] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
Serve a previously built out_dir over HTTP.
.PP
Uses axum + tower\-http ServeDir: directory indexes, precompressed gzip,
and index.html fallback. Does not rebuild — run `statica build` first
(or use `statica watch` to build continuously).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print the statica version (from Cargo.toml) and exit successfully.
.TP
\fB\-\-project\fR \fI<DIR>\fR
Overrides `project` in statica.toml.
Path is relative to the directory that contains `statica.toml` (found by walking up from cwd / PATH).
Empty / omitted = that config directory is the site root.
.TP
\fB\-\-out\-dir\fR \fI<DIR>\fR
Output directory (out_dir)
.TP
\fB\-\-site\-url\fR \fI<URL>\fR
Site origin for sitemap/RSS (site_url)
.TP
\fB\-\-clean\fR
Clean out_dir before build
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-clean\fR
Do not clean out_dir before build
.TP
\fB\-\-copy\-assets\fR
Copy asset_dirs into out_dir
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-copy\-assets\fR
Skip copying asset directories
.TP
\fB\-\-asset\-dirs\fR \fI<DIRS>\fR
Comma\-separated asset folder names
.TP
\fB\-\-ignore\-dirs\fR \fI<DIRS>\fR
Comma\-separated dirs to skip when discovering pages
.TP
\fB\-\-process\fR [\fI<SPEC>\fR]
Enable [process]. Optional SPEC:
enabled, css, js, images, fonts
Examples:
\-\-process
\-\-process css=true,js=false,images=true,fonts=false
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-process\fR
Disable asset processing
.TP
\fB\-\-minify\fR [\fI<SPEC>\fR]
Enable [minify] — shrink HTML, CSS, and JS in out_dir.
enabled, html, css, js
Examples:
\-\-minify
\-\-minify html=true,css=true,js=false
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-minify\fR
Disable final minification
.TP
\fB\-\-sitemap\fR [\fI<SPEC>\fR]
Enable [sitemap]. Optional SPEC:
enabled, filename, urls_per_file
Examples:
\-\-sitemap
\-\-sitemap filename=sitemap.xml,urls_per_file=50000
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-sitemap\fR
Disable sitemap generation
.TP
\fB\-\-rss\fR [\fI<SPEC>\fR]
Enable [rss]. Optional SPEC:
enabled, filename, title, description, language, limit,
title_field, description_field, date_field, collections
Examples:
\-\-rss
\-\-rss \*(Aqtitle=Blog,limit=20,collections=posts,date_field=published_at\*(Aq
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-rss\fR
Disable RSS feed
.TP
\fB\-\-pagination\fR \fI<SPEC>\fR
Replace all [[pagination]] entries. Repeat for multiple rules.
SPEC is comma\-separated key=value:
route (required), page_size|per_page, limit, offset,
sort_by, sort_desc, max_pages, index
Example: \-\-pagination \*(Aqroute=blog/[page],page_size=10,sort_desc=true,index=true\*(Aq
.TP
\fB\-\-preview\fR \fI<SPEC>\fR
Override [preview]. Comma\-separated key=value:
host, port, debounce_ms, poll_interval_secs
Example: \-\-preview host=127.0.0.1,port=9000,debounce_ms=100
`\-\-host` / `\-p` are short aliases for the same fields.
.TP
\fB\-\-host\fR \fI<HOST>\fR
Preview bind address (alias for \-\-preview host=…)
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-port\fR \fI<PORT>\fR
Preview server port (alias for \-\-preview port=…)
.TP
\fB\-\-i18n\fR [\fI<SPEC>\fR]
Enable [i18n]. Optional SPEC:
enabled, default, locales, dir, fallback
Examples:
\-\-i18n
\-\-i18n \*(Aqlocales=en|pt,default=en\*(Aq
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-i18n\fR
Disable i18n
.TP
\fB\-\-manifest\fR
Scaffold public/manifest.webmanifest and inject PWA head tags
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-manifest\fR
Disable web manifest scaffold and head tags
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Print pipeline step timings during the build and a Next.js\-style route table at the end.
`statica build` is silent by default; `statica watch` shows logs by default.
.TP
\fB\-\-silent\fR
Hide build step logs and the route summary.
`statica watch` shows logs by default; pass `\-\-silent` to turn them off.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help (see a summary with \*(Aq\-h\*(Aq)
.TP
[\fIPATH\fR] [default: .]
Directory to start from when locating the project. Resolved against the process cwd.
Walks up for `statica.toml`. Use `\-\-project` (or `project` in the toml) for a site subdirectory.
.SH EXTRA
Examples:
  statica build && statica serve
  statica serve examples/blog
  statica serve . \-p 9000 \-\-host 127.0.0.1

Notes:
  \-\-host / \-\-port override [preview] from statica.toml.
  Defaults: host 0.0.0.0, port 4321.
  Prints Local + Network (LAN) URLs for phone testing.
  Fails if out_dir is missing.
.SH VERSION
v0.12.1
