.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH statica 1  "statica 0.7.0" 
.SH NAME
statica \- statica — Powered HTML
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBstatica\fR [\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR] [\fB\-\-project\fR] [\fB\-\-out\-dir\fR] [\fB\-\-site\-url\fR] [\fB\-\-clean\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-clean\fR] [\fB\-\-copy\-assets\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-copy\-assets\fR] [\fB\-\-asset\-dirs\fR] [\fB\-\-ignore\-dirs\fR] [\fB\-\-emit\fR] [\fB\-\-process\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-process\fR] [\fB\-\-sitemap\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-sitemap\fR] [\fB\-\-rss\fR] [\fB\-\-no\-rss\fR] [\fB\-\-pagination\fR] [\fB\-\-preview\fR] [\fB\-\-host\fR] [\fB\-p\fR|\fB\-\-port\fR] [\fB\-V\fR|\fB\-\-verbose\fR] [\fB\-\-silent\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] [\fIPATH\fR] [\fIsubcommands\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
statica — Powered HTML
.PP
Turns HTML pages, fragments, and local JSON funnels into a static site.
Transforms modern CSS to browser\-ready output.
.PP
Flow: Funnel → Pages → output directory (default: .dist)
.PP
With no subcommand, statica builds PATH (default: `.`):
  statica
  statica examples/blog
  statica serve examples/blog
  statica watch examples/blog
.PP
End\-user settings are read from statica.toml (optional). Every key has an
equivalent CLI flag; flags override the file.
.PP
Project location:
  PATH (default `.`) is resolved against the process cwd, then statica walks
  up for statica.toml. Site root = that directory, or `project` / `\-\-project`
  under it.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print the statica version (from Cargo.toml) and exit successfully.
.TP
\fB\-\-project\fR \fI<DIR>\fR
Overrides `project` in statica.toml.
Path is relative to the directory that contains `statica.toml` (found by walking up from cwd / PATH).
Empty / omitted = that config directory is the site root.
.TP
\fB\-\-out\-dir\fR \fI<DIR>\fR
Output directory (out_dir)
.TP
\fB\-\-site\-url\fR \fI<URL>\fR
Site origin for sitemap/RSS (site_url)
.TP
\fB\-\-clean\fR
Clean out_dir before build
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-clean\fR
Do not clean out_dir before build
.TP
\fB\-\-copy\-assets\fR
Copy asset_dirs into out_dir
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-copy\-assets\fR
Skip copying asset directories
.TP
\fB\-\-asset\-dirs\fR \fI<DIRS>\fR
Comma\-separated asset folder names
.TP
\fB\-\-ignore\-dirs\fR \fI<DIRS>\fR
Comma\-separated dirs to skip when discovering pages
.TP
\fB\-\-emit\fR \fI<SPEC>\fR
Override [emit]. Comma\-separated key=value:
strip_data, strip_fragments, strip_html_data_bind, dedupe_helpers, dedupe_styles
Example: \-\-emit strip_data=false,dedupe_styles=true
.TP
\fB\-\-process\fR [\fI<SPEC>\fR]
Enable [process]. Optional SPEC:
enabled, css, js, images, fonts
Examples:
\-\-process
\-\-process css=true,js=false,images=true,fonts=false
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-process\fR
Disable asset processing
.TP
\fB\-\-sitemap\fR [\fI<SPEC>\fR]
Enable [sitemap]. Optional SPEC:
enabled, filename, urls_per_file
Examples:
\-\-sitemap
\-\-sitemap filename=sitemap.xml,urls_per_file=50000
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-sitemap\fR
Disable sitemap generation
.TP
\fB\-\-rss\fR [\fI<SPEC>\fR]
Enable [rss]. Optional SPEC:
enabled, filename, title, description, language, limit,
title_field, description_field, date_field, collections
Examples:
\-\-rss
\-\-rss \*(Aqtitle=Blog,limit=20,collections=posts,date_field=published_at\*(Aq
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-rss\fR
Disable RSS feed
.TP
\fB\-\-pagination\fR \fI<SPEC>\fR
Replace all [[pagination]] entries. Repeat for multiple rules.
SPEC is comma\-separated key=value:
route (required), page_size|per_page, limit, offset,
sort_by, sort_desc, max_pages, index
Example: \-\-pagination \*(Aqroute=blog/[page],page_size=10,sort_desc=true,index=true\*(Aq
.TP
\fB\-\-preview\fR \fI<SPEC>\fR
Override [preview]. Comma\-separated key=value:
host, port, debounce_ms, poll_interval_secs
Example: \-\-preview host=127.0.0.1,port=9000,debounce_ms=100
`\-\-host` / `\-p` are short aliases for the same fields.
.TP
\fB\-\-host\fR \fI<HOST>\fR
Preview bind address (alias for \-\-preview host=…)
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-port\fR \fI<PORT>\fR
Preview server port (alias for \-\-preview port=…)
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Print pipeline step timings during the build and a Next.js\-style route table at the end.
`statica build` is silent by default; `statica watch` shows logs by default.
.TP
\fB\-\-silent\fR
Hide build step logs and the route summary.
`statica watch` shows logs by default; pass `\-\-silent` to turn them off.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help (see a summary with \*(Aq\-h\*(Aq)
.TP
[\fIPATH\fR] [default: .]
Project root to start from (default: current working directory).
statica resolves this path against cwd, then walks up looking for `statica.toml`.
The site root is that config directory, or `project` / `\-\-project` under it.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
statica\-build(1)
Build Funnel → pages → output directory
.TP
statica\-serve(1)
Serve out_dir over HTTP (preview a build)
.TP
statica\-watch(1)
Watch, rebuild, and serve a local preview
.TP
statica\-new(1)
Create a new statica project scaffold
.SH EXTRA
Examples:
  statica                         Build cwd (find statica.toml walking up)
  statica build examples/blog
  statica build \-\-project site    Use project=site under found statica.toml
  statica build \-\-process         Optimize public/ CSS, JS, images
  statica \-\-site\-url https://x.com \-\-rss
  statica serve ./site            Preview .dist over HTTP
  statica watch . \-\-port 8080     Watch, rebuild, serve on :8080
  statica new my\-site             Scaffold my\-site/ with statica.toml

Configuration:
  Nested tables use compact SPECs (same style as pagination):
    \-\-rss \*(Aqtitle=Blog,limit=20,collections=posts\*(Aq
    \-\-sitemap \*(Aqfilename=sitemap.xml,urls_per_file=50000\*(Aq
    \-\-process \*(Aqcss=true,js=false,images=true\*(Aq
    \-\-emit strip_data=false
    \-\-preview host=127.0.0.1,port=9000
    \-\-pagination \*(Aqroute=blog/[page],page_size=10,sort_desc=true,index=true\*(Aq
  (collections in \-\-rss use | as list separator)

Exit status:
  0 on success; non\-zero on build, I/O, or config errors.

See also:
  docs/guide.md, man statica(1)
.SH VERSION
v0.7.0
